Hey guys welcome back to the course so we introduce e-books and our last lecture but now let's discuss
how you go about creating one.
Now the first thing to know is that e-books are kind of like books except for a shorter and a fraction
of the effort went into it.
Well the link is actually up to you.
You can make your e-book as long as you want but if you want to produce more of these things shoot for
a length in the neighborhood of say 20 to 30 pages.
Keep in mind that many e-books also have a lot of visuals so in terms of writing you might not have
to actually write a 20 or 30 pages of stuff could actually just be 15 or it could be less.
And then also keep in mind you might be borrowing stuff from your blog so you're only creating new stuff
for maybe half of that.
Your design and your use of visuals will affect that final now.
Now if you watch a lecture on how to create a White Paper Well these next steps might sound familiar
really because when you create any kind of content you kind of have to start in the same process.
Well first what do you do you remember you identify your audience.
Who exactly are you reading this e-book for and keep in mind this e-book might not be the exact same
audience as your overall website is targeting might be a really specific subset really specific problem
or skill set that a really specific group needs.
What do you figure this out this will help you figure out a good topic that's going to be relevant to
them.
So pick your topic for a white paper.
We usually choose a problem to solve the case of an e-book.
Well we generally want to pick a topic or a concept or a collection of concepts to cover in the end
probably does solve a problem too.
But the focus will be more about providing in-depth detail and best practices and proving a point.
The research data I really like his example from you ex-Penn though he mentioned in the last lecture
you ex-Penn knows that their audience is probably going to be a bunch of user experience people designing
apps and Web sites and other types of things.
So creating an e-book for that audience well helps you ex-Penn strengthen the relationship with them
and prove that they're worth it.
A I should use my tool.
The topic they chose is a perfect one for their audience how to launch a U.S. career and get paid.
Well the ebook is about serving the needs of the audience and setting them up for career success.
Well your e-book can be a way to set up your audience with success as a designer or developer or whatever
whatever you choose the audience and the topic should be perfect matches for each other.
Next you should write up a title and an outline.
The title should essentially be the topic in headline form.
The line people will read on the landing page or on an ad and then say OK that is something that's directly
relevant to me and I need to read it.
Your title can be a work in progress and maybe you won't actually get it finalized until you finish
writing the ebook and that is perfectly fine but your outline should be something that begins to provide
structure for what you're about to create.
Your outline should resemble the chapters of a book since this is an e-book.
Kind of makes sense so lay out the major chapters first and then dig into each one specifically.
Making a note of the details steps or instructions you need to cover along the way.
At this point start writing.
Use your outline as a guide and fill in all the spaces.
Now earlier I mentioned a lot of e-books weigh in at like 20 to 30 pages.
But in terms of word count well it's actually probably more like I don't know two thousand six thousand
words.
Remember these a lot of visuals depends on detail.
Obviously you need to be the best advice I can give you here is that you need to provide the detail
your audience expects and needs.
Don't cut yourself off because you reached a word limit providing value is much more while valuable
than giving people something short to read.
Once you have a first draft of your e-book written just go back through an edit the book for clarity
and meaning you can even hire someone to do this as well.
A perk is a great place to look for ebook editors who are very cheap so look for spots in there to add
structures if it can help with longer passages like you might want to write a chapter on let's say on
page SEO factors in your new ebook so you could add section headers for each factor you cover so it
could be Hetter tags.
Link structure bullet lists and so on.
We just wrote the SEO course.
It just helps break up long content and makes it easier for people to scan if they're in a rush.
Look for ways to call out key points you can use cold call outs if there's a particular line you want
people to remember or focus on.
Use bullet lists or checklist to rundown multiple items if you want to use a visual of some kind and
you can create it using an online tool like the one I always talk about.
Kanva can was really good for creating different kinds of visuals but one I found useful was the checklist
template specifically that they have it's easy to sign up for Camma you just sign up through Facebook
or Google account.
It's FREE.
Once you're there it's pretty easy to browse through different templates and edit them to create something
that fits perfectly in your ebook and then obviously makes sure that everything you wrote makes sense.
Read it out loud.
Even that can actually help you spot any weirdness or mistakes.
Remember it's was written conversationally have someone else read it and see if it makes sense to them.
Is there anything that's glaringly missing.
Designing your ebook is important but you're in luck because you can find hundreds of free templates
online to get you started.
I spotted some nice free ebook templates from Hubspot lucid press and even a blog called food blogger
Central which has templates you can use in powerpoint to create a recipe ebook you know specifically
what you want to do.
We'll throw those in the resources.
And that brings up a good point.
If there's a specific topic you have in mind for your e-book a really quick Google search will do wonders.
Just search for a free eBook template for cooking that helped me find the food bloggers one are not
interested in food blogging but I've found pretty easily.
Or you can just search for the program you want to use free ebook template and then word or Indesign
or Google Docs or whatever it is you plan to make it in.
There are just so many options out there that it's worth looking for something that fits your needs
here laying out your ebook.
You might find some pages are just packed with text.
So again try to break it up with images.
E-books can be very visual so insert a screenshot or something about what you're talking about.
A sidebar maybe even to explain a related topic something worth going into or even even Unfortunately
stock photos can make it better than just a block of text.
If you want to try that out go to stock photo.
It's probably the best way to do it or pick's Bay is usually you don't pay for them.
You want a good tip here.
Well come up with a theme for your images for the ebook including a cover image.
Maybe your topic today is about ways to improve website usability.
That doesn't mean every picture has to be of a website.
Your theme could be something related like simplicity or even symmetry.
Look for pictures on eyes stock or pics Bay or whatever that feel like a match for the topic or get
inspiration and take pics take the actual pictures yourself or your camera person.
Either I sprinkle in these images and choose a great one for your cover to make the theme really stick.
As with white papers make sure your logo and branding is on the document.
The cover the last page and at least every page in between should have something that they can identify
you as the creator.
The last page in fact usually has a general blurb about the author or the brand that produced the e-book
so use that as a spot to drive people back to your Web site.
Keep in mind that e-books can end up getting shared with others so use it as free advertising to keep
the original reader and new ones coming back to your site.
Speaking of your site well your ebook will need a landing page as well.
The format should match what we did for white papers provide an intro clear expectations of what people
will get when they download the ebook and break it out in a bullets to make it easy to understand set
up clear expectations and your readers will be happy.
I think got a valuable e-book you've created for them.
Are you guys.
That is if you guys want any more help or advice or want to share what you make posts in the slack.
Otherwise I'll see you in the next lecture.